                RAR - What's new in the latest version


   Version 2.90

   1. Added extraction only support of BZIP2, JAR (Java ARchive)
      and ACE 2.0 formats.
   
   2. Now it is possible to use full file paths such as d:\path\name
      in the exclude lists and -x<name> switch when archiving. 
      Earlier versions understood only relative file paths here.

   3. New option "Append archive name to path" in the
      "Settings/Compression" dialog. It is used only if the default
      folder for extracted files is specified and it controls if the 
      archive name is appended to the default folder name when 
      constructing the destination path.

   4. New 'E' parameter for -ag switch denotes a day of year.
      For example: rar a -agEEE backup.

   5. To provide a reasonable tradeoff between compression and
      reliability, RAR resets solid statistics between volumes
      only if sufficient data (about 4 MB) had been processed since 
      the last reset.

      You may use two new switches to change this default behaviour.
      Switch -sv forces RAR to always reset statistics, regardless
      of volume size, when -sv- disables such reset at all times.

      Switch -sv- supersedes -sd, though the latter is also recognized
      by RAR for compatibility purposes.

   6. The choice "Never" is added to the file overwrite request
      displayed by console mode RAR. Style of console RAR requests
      is somewhat altered.

   7. "Extract Here" item is added to archives context menu.
      You may use it to unpack archive contents to the current folder.

   8. If you selected several archives in Explorer and then
      right clicked them, the context menu will include both
      archiving and extraction commands, so you may unpack all
      the archives at once.

      The old group unpacking method, through dragging a group
      by the right mouse button to the destination folder,
      is also supported.

   9. File selection is not cleared when a user cancels the archiving
      in WinRAR, so it is possible to repeat archiving without
      selecting files again.

  10. File lists (@listfile parameters of the command line) may now
      contain comments preceeded by // characters. For example:

      c:\work\doc\*.txt         //backup text documents
      c:\work\image\*.bmp       //backup pictures

  11. Disks disabled in the system policy are not displayed in the toolbar
      and "Change drive" menu.
   
  12. Bugs corrected:

      a) switches -y -inul did not disable some messages in GUI WinRAR;

      b) sometimes WinRAR could display "Cannot create temporary file" 
         error when opening a lot of archived files for a short time;

      c) now RAR skips archived names like 'prn', which belong to devices
         reported by Windows 2000 as pipe. Names of character devices are
         skipped by both this and previous WinRAR versions.


   Version 2.80

   1. We express our gratitude to Francesco Indrio
      <naradamoon@operamail.com> for designing all new WinRAR graphics.

   2. Added support of Unicode in file names. It may help to avoid
      many problems related with national and some special characters
      in archived file names. The complete support of Unicode
      is available only for Windows NT and Windows 2000 users,
      but this feature still provides some benefits for
      Win9x/WinME users.

   3. Dialogs "Info", "SFX", "Comment", "Lock" and "Protect" are
      combined to a single dialog, so you may change several
      archive parameters at once.

   4. "Advanced SFX options" button added to SFX dialog allows
      to set additional parameters of SFX module such as extraction
      path, title, window text others.

   5. Toolbar:

      a) toolbar buttons are reordered;

      b) "Add" button is now available also inside of archives;

      c) "Extract" and "Lock" are not present on the toolbar
         by default, but you may use "Extract To" and
         "Info/Options/Lock archive" instead. On the other hand
         it is possible to enable these buttons using a new
         "Select buttons..." command in "Settings/General" dialog;

      d) "Extract To" command now has the same Alt-E keyboard
         shortcut both inside and outside of archives.
         Shortcut of the "Extract" command is changed to "Alt-W".

   6. Changes in the "Archive name and parameters" dialog:

      a) "General/Lock archive" option - lock a created or
         modified archive;

      b) "Advanced/Pause after each volume" option - always ask
         confirmation before creating next volume regardless
         of disk type;

      c) "Advanced/Recovery record" - specify the size of the recovery
         record as a percentage of the total archive size;

      d) "SFX options" - set parameters of the created SFX archive;

      e) "Files to add" and "Files to exclude" had been moved from
         "Advanced" to the new "Files" sheet;

      f) "Files/File paths" - select a method of storing file paths;

      g) "Put each file to separate archive" - put each selected file
         in the current folder and all files in selected subfolders to
         separate archives, each archive contains only one file.

   7. "History" menu is removed. The names of a few recently opened
      archives are added to the end of "Files" menu.

   8. The new "Import/Export" submenu in "Settings" menu includes
      two commands allowing to export WinRAR settings to Settings.reg
      file and import them later. It may be useful if you wish to
      restore WinRAR settings after re-installing Windows or if is 
      needed to move them to another computer. Settings.reg file is 
      created in the same folder as WinRAR.exe.

   9. "Settings/General" dialog:

      a) "High priority" option is removed as it usually
         deteriorated overall system performance without any real
         increase of WinRAR performance. But "Low priority" option
         is present and it can be useful if you wish to give more
         processor time to other tasks.

      b) New "Keep archives history" option allows to disable
         storing the names of recently opened archives, for example,
         for security reasons.

      c) "Always on top" option places WinRAR window above all 
         other programs. You may wish to set it if you frequently
         use WinRAR as a drag and drop target.

      d) Use "Toobar/Select buttons..." to customize WinRAR buttons.

  10. "Settings/Compression" dialog:

      a) "Volume options" are removed. Now WinRAR always creates
         independent volumes, because they minimize data losses
         in case of archive damage.

         Compression profiles introduced in the previous version
         provide better flexibility than the removed "Always put
         recovery record" option. You may specify all required
         settings in a separate profile intended for volumes.

      b) "Default folder for extracted files" is moved to this dialog.
         Its behaviour is changed a bit, now it is used both in
         "Extract To" and "Extract" commands as the base part of
         the destination path. The complete path is constructed
         by appending an archive name to the default folder.

         "Settings/Extraction" dialog is removed.
         
  11. New options in the "Settings/File list" dialog:

      a) "Show archives first" - display archive names above all
         other files in the file list window;

      b) "Merge volumes contents" - when you open the first volume,
         read and display contents of all volumes available in the same
         folder as the first volume.

      Both options are enabled by default.

  12. "Settings/Viewer" dialog:

      a) "Reuse existing window" option tells WinRAR to keep
         only one internal viewer window.

  13. Changes in the GUI SFX module script language:

      a) New "License" command displays a license text before
         extracting files;

      b) New "Presetup" command runs the specified program before
         extracting files;

      c) New "ExtSign" command informs SFX that additional data
         in free format may be present at the end of archive;

      d) script may include more than one Setup command;

      e) New optional syntax of "Text" command.
         "Text" and "License" commands now support some HTML tags;

      f) "Silent" command may have an optional parameter.

  14. SFX module displays the total processed progress bar while
      unpacking files.

  15. Archive information dialog:

      a) the authenticity information is displayed in a separate
         window, which can be scrolled to view very long AV strings;

      b) this dialog now contains the size of maximum continuous damaged
         area, which still can be repaired using the recovery record
         contained in the archive. This number is for the best case,
         a real value can be smaller depending on the type of damage.

  16. Command 's-' allows to remove SFX module from SFX archive.

  17. Switch '-ag' supports two new format parameters:

      a) 'W' - a number of the current week in a year;

      b) 'A' - a number of the current day in a week.
         Weeks start with Monday.

  18. New switch '-k' - lock archive.

  19. New switch '-vp' - pause after each volume.

  20. You may specify the recovery record size as a percentage of the
      total archive size in 'rr' command and '-rr' switch. For 
      example, -rr3%

  21. New -ep2 switch - store full file paths when archiving.

  22. You may break the archiving operation directly from
      the "Diagnostic messages" dialog using "Break operation" button.

  23. Switches -inul and -y can be used in WinRAR command line
      to disable error messages.

  24. Switch -sv is removed, now RAR and WinRAR by default create
      independent volumes. You may override it using the new -sd
      switch, but note that it reduces your chances to restore
      a part of data in case of archive damage.

  25. In case of write error WinRAR asks for "Retry/Abort"
      confirmation instead of immediate aborting as before, so a user
      has a possibility to free some space on the destination disk.

  26. The following keyboard shortcuts are now supported by WinRAR:

      a) F2 - rename a file under the cursor. It is supported
         only outside archives;

      b) F4 - open the address list.

  27. RCVT archive converter is removed from WinRAR distributive.
      It is available in "RAR extras" section of www.rarsoft.com.

  28. Note to users willing to translate WinRAR to their native
      language: please look at rarlng.rar archive in "RAR extras"
      section of www.rarsoft.com. Now it is possible to localize
      WinRAR very easily simply by editing plain text files.
